---
title: "Role of Professonal chapters in the life of students  "
date: 2020-03-16T10:03:59+05:30
draft: true
weight: 0
---
Following are the some of the reasions why studetns must join and actively participate in professional societies while they are in the college

1. Only acadmic knowledge is not sufficient to become master in the technology
2. Leadership and coordination
3. Actively seeking new tools and technologies information

Following are the some of the technical societies available for IT/CSE students and how you can benitfit from them
1. IEEE
2. CSI
3. ACM


What you will be able to do in these societies
1. Learn, teach and create
  Learn new technologies, teach others and even work on projects. Professonal bodies often needs students who can develop web apps, mobile apps or any other solutions which are required.

2. Experiential learning through challenging learning projects and events.
  Professonal bodies have the events organised here you can learn about the all asects of the event orgnanization.
  Like technical paper presentation, coding compititions, hackathons etc.

3. You can learn any technology in depth and take workshops for 2-3 days for peers this way you can develop your delivery and communication skills. Teaching will also improve your in depth knowledge about the same topic.

4. You get opporunity to get excuse from the lectures if you are working on any technical event or workshop
Example students who are working on the Smart India Hackathon, or Mumbai Hackathon gets more time to work on their event than attending the lectures.

5. You get the opportunity to develop competencies related to placements, entrepreneurship skills, communication skills, leadership skills, software development and management skills.

6. Professional bodies can provide platform to test and try new ideas

How to join and get the real benifits all these societies ?

Following the some of the events or activites which you can contribute or take parts in

Other than these there are many meetup groups available on meetups.io

Following are the some of the active groups in the Mumbai.
